docs(tutorials): fixed various tutorials MTA-1462 (#90)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/erpnext/index.mdx

---
title: How to deploy ERPNext 12 on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic Beaver)
description: Discover how to deploy the ERPNext 12 application on a Scaleway Dedibox dedicated server
tags: erpnext erp odoo
excerpt: |

>   ERPNext is a free and open-source ERP software desigend to be used by manufacteres, distribuors and service companies. It includes a full range of modules including accounting, sales, CRM, purchasing, warehouse management and inventory. Moreover, specialised modules are available tailored to the needs of schools, healthcare, agriculture and non-proift sectors. It uses a MariaDB database to store its dat, is written in Python and based on the Frappé Framework. The application is released under the GNU GPLv3 license and its sourcecode is hosted on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ERPNext is a free and open-source ERP software designed to be used by manufacturers, distributors and service companies. It includes a full range of modules including accounting, sales, CRM, purchasing, warehouse management and inventory. Moreover, specialized modules are available tailored to the needs of schools, healthcare, agriculture and non-profit sectors. It uses a MariaDB database to store its dat, is written in Python and based on the Frappé Framework. The application is released under the GNU GPLv3 license and its source code is hosted on GitHub.
```

image: /assets/scaleway_erpnext.png
keywords: cloud tutorials, cloud documentations, cloud instance, bare metal, baremetal, baremetal server, erp, odoo, erpnext, open-source
dates:
  validation: 2021-09-14
  posted: 2020-07-28
---

## ERPNext - Overview

[ERPNext](https://www.erpnext.com/) is a free and open-source ERP software designed to be used by manufacturers, distributors, and service companies. It includes a full range of modules, including accounting, sales, CRM, purchasing, warehouse management, and inventory. Moreover, specialized modules are available tailored to schools, healthcare, agriculture, and non-profit sectors. It uses a MariaDB database to store its data, is written in Python, and based on the [Frappé Framework](https://frappeframework.com/). The application is released under the GNU GPLv3 license, and its source code is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/frappe/erpnext).

In this tutorial, you will learn how to install and configure ERPNext 12 on Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver) on a Scaleway Dedibox dedicated server.

<Message type="tip">

>   See [our updated tutorial](/tutorials/erpnext-13) for installing ERPNext 13 on Ubuntu 20.04 Focal Fossa

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  See [our updated tutorial](/tutorials/erpnext-13/) for installing ERPNext 13 on Ubuntu 20.04 Focal Fossa
```

  LANG=en_US.UTF-8
  ```

5. Configure the locale of the system to `en_US.utf8`:

  ```
  localectl set-keymap us && localectl set-locale LANG=en_US.utf8
  ```

>   Save the file, exit the text editor, and reboot your instance using the `reboot` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Save the file, exit the text editor, and reboot your Instance using the `reboot` command.
```

  sudo bash nodesource_setup.sh
  ```

> 5. Install NodeSource usin `apt`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Install NodeSource using `apt`:
```

  sudo dpkg -i wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.bionic_amd64.deb
  ```

9. Copy all the relevant binary files to the `/usr/bin` directory:

  ```
  sudo cp /usr/local/bin/wkhtmlto* /usr/bin/
  ```

10. Make the files executable:

  ```
  sudo chmod a+x /usr/bin/wkhtmlto*
  ```

> 11. Return back into the `/home` directory of the user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Return to the `/home` directory of the user:
```

### Installing the Frappe Framework

1. Increase Ubuntu’s file limit, which may be necessary for sucessfully installing the Frappe Framework. Use the following command:

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p`
```

Author: I don't think the formatting here changes anything one way or the other? :-)

>   echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I don't think the formatting here changes anything one way or the other

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- **Nginx**, a versatile web server that will be used as a proxy to redirect all requests on the standard HTTP (Port 80) and HTTPS (Port 443) to the ERPNext application listening on port 8000.
- **Supervisor**, a service that ensures all required processes of ERPNext are constantly up and running. In case of any failure, it will restart them.

> 1. Executed the following command from the `frappe-bench` directory of your user. Run `bench` with these parameters and replace `timmy` with the name of your user owning the production environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following command from the `frappe-bench` directory of your user. Run `bench` with these parameters and replace `timmy` with the name of your user owning the production environment:
```

  ```
  sudo bench setup production timmy
  ```

  It creates the following configuration files:

    - **Nginx:** Two configuration files: `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`, and `/etc/nginx/conf.d/frappe-bench.conf`
    - **Fail2Ban:** One proxy jail (`/etc/fail2ban/jail.d/nginx-proxy.conf`), and one filter configuration (`/etc/fail2ban/filter.d/nginx-proxy.conf`)

  The default values configured in these files are suitable for an essential start and the goals of this tutorial. However, depending on your workload, you may tweak them further.

> 2. Use TLS to encrypt the connection between clients and the server for increased security. For this purpose, install [`certbot`](https://certbot.eff.org) on the machine, a tool that can manage the request and renewal of Let's Encrypt certificates and the automatic configuration of Nginx. Add the certbot packet archive to the `apt` package manage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Use TLS to encrypt the connection between clients and the server for increased security. For this purpose, install [`certbot`](https://certbot.eff.org) on the machine. `certbot` is a tool that can manage the request and renewal of Let's Encrypt certificates and the automatic configuration of Nginx. Add the certbot packet archive to the `apt` package manage:
```

  ```
  sudo add-apt-repository universe
  sudo add-apt-repository ppa:certbot/certbot
  sudo apt update
  ```

> 2. Install certbot using `apt`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install `certbot` using `apt`:
```
